## SynSigGen 1.0.12
### Update 
* Updated exported function `MergeExposures` to sort the signature ids of the 
merged exposure.

* Suppressed warning messages that came from internal function `NumFromId`.

### Bug fix
* Fixed bug in internal function `GetMutationType` to check all the signature
names to determine the mutation type.

<br> 

## SynSigGen 1.0.11
### **Important** Update 
* Updated exported function `GetSynSigParamsFromExposures` and internal function
`SynSigParamsOneSignature` to only use the `size` parameter from empirical
signature parameters if there is only one data to fit the negative binomial
distribution. The `mu` parameter will be using the original mutation count.

<br> 

## SynSigGen 1.0.10
### Updated 
* Updated function `GenerateSyntheticTumors` to show informative messages
about regenerating parameters from the synthetic exposures and compare with that
from real exposures if `verbose > 0`.

### Added
* Added new argument `tumor.marker.name` in function `GenerateSyntheticTumors`.

* Added new argument `sig.params` in exported functions
`GetSynSigParamsFromExposures` and `GenerateSyntheticTumors`.

* Added two new exported functions `GenerateListOfSigParams` and
`GenerateSyntheticTumorsFromSigParams`.

<br> 

## SynSigGen 1.0.9
### Updated
* Updated function  `GenerateSynExposureOneSample` to round the synthetic exposure to make
it biologically reasonable.

* Updated function `GetSynSigParamsFromExposures` not to drop rare signatures
that are present in only one sample when `distribution` is `neg.binom`. Instead,
this function will use the empirical signature parameters from all cancer types.

* Updated function `GenerateSyntheticTumors` to enable generating different number 
of synthetic tumors for each cancer type.

* Updated function `GetSynSigParamsFromExposures` to drop signatures which do not
have empirical signature parameters from all cancer types.

* Updated function `GenerateSyntheticTumors` and `GenerateNoisyTumors` to append
mutation type information to the names of files generated.

* Updated function `GenerateSyntheticExposures` to remove signatures that have zero
exposure in the synthetic data.

### Added
* Added default value 100 for argument `n.binom.size` in function `AddNoise`. 

* Added new exported data `signature.params`.

* Added new exported data `ID.MMR.params`.

* Added two new internal functions `NumFromId` and `SortSigId`.

### Fixed
* Fixed a bug in function `GenerateSynExposureOneSample` to round the mutations
due to each signature.

<br> 

## SynSigGen 1.0.8
### Added 
* Added new exported function  `GenerateNoisyTumors`.

* Minor change to function `GenerateSyntheticTumors` for always writing the
signature names in the parameters CSV file in case some signature is not present
in the synthetic data.

<br> 

## SynSigGen 1.0.7
### Added 
* Added new argument `distribution` in functions `SynSigParamsOneSignature` and
`GetSynSigParamsFromExposures` to enable fitting the exposures using negative
binomial distribution.

* Added new argument `distribution` and `sig.params` in function
`GenerateSynExposureOneSample` to enable generating synthetic exposures using
negative binomial distribution.

* Added new argument `distribution` in function `GenerateSyntheticExposures` to
enable generating synthetic exposures using negative binomial distribution.

* Added new exported function `GenerateSyntheticTumors` which enables generating 
synthetic tumors using negative binomial distribution.

* Added new argument `verbose` in function `GenerateSyntheticTumors` which can
cat various messages if value greater than 0.

* Added new argument `cancer.type` in function `GetSynSigParamsFromExposures`.

### Fixed
* Fixed a bug in function `SynSigParamsOneSignature` to generate parameter
estimates (negative binomial distribution) for one signature only using those
tumors which have mutations for this particular signature.

### Updated
* Updated function `SynSigParamsOneSignature` to return NA for the parameter
estimates (negative binomial distribution) for one signature if there is only
one tumor which has mutation for this particular signature.

<br> 

## SynSigGen 1.0.6
### Added 
* Added data object "SBS1SBS5datasetNames" as names of SBS1-SBS5 spectra datasets generated by CreateSBS1SBS5CorrelatedSyntheticData()

* Added new argument `sig.matrix` in functions `GenerateSynExposureOneSample` and `GenerateSyntheticExposures` so that we can resample the synthetic exposures to make
sure the total mutations for the reconstructed catalog is not zero.

### Fixed 
* Fixed a bug in `GetSynSigParamsFromExposures` when the exposures only have one row that are
not all zeros.

## SynSigGen 1.0.5
### Simplified
* Simplified folder structure of SBS1-SBS5-correlated dataset,
generated by `CreateSBS1SBS5CorrelatedSyntheticData()` - 
The files of synthetic datasets are under the dataset folders, and no more
`sp.sp` folders.

## SynSigGen 1.0.4
### Last version generates SBS1-SBS5-correlated dataset with two-layer directory  structure:

* Name of dataset (e.g. `S.0.1.Rsq.0.1`)
* Folder `sp.sp`, means that two ground-truth signatures (`SBS1` and `SBS5`) are from results of SigProfiler in (https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-020-1943-3)
* Files of synthetic datasets.

### Clarified
* Clarified package `README`
* Clarified package documentation
* Clarified function documentation

### Fixed typo 
* Renamed function `Create.3.4.40.Abstract()` to `Create.3.5.40.Abstract()`

## SynSigGen 1.0.3
* Removed `R/SigSimilarity.R` (functionality now in `ICAMSxtra`)
  and adjusted code in this package.

## SynSigGen 1.0.2.9001

### Added
* Added function `AddNoise`.
* Added `biocViews` as a field name in package [DESCRIPTION](https://github.com/steverozen/SynSigGen/blob/master/DESCRIPTION).
* Created reference manual.
